## 4. User Management

### 4.1 Users and Groups
Each user has their own home directory where their user specific files get stored, this is usually located in /home/username, but can vary in different distributions.

The system uses user ids (UID) to manage users, usernames are the friendly way to associate users with identification, but the system identifies users by their UID. The system also uses groups to manage permissions, groups are just sets of users with permission set by that group, they are identified by the system with their group ID (GID).

### 4.2 User Management Tools
```
useradd : add a user
	-g : assign GID of the new account
	-m : create user's home directory
	-p : encrypted password
	-u : assign UID of the new account
userdel : delete a user
	-r : remove home directory and mail spool
passwd USERNAME : change password of user with USERNAME
	-d : delete the password of the account
	-r : change password of a repo
```

### 4.3 `/etc/passwd` sample
This file shows you a list of users and detailed information about them.

```sh
$ cat /etc/passwd
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```

root | x | 0 | 0 | root| /root | /bin/bash
--|--|--|--|--|--|--
Username | encrypted user password <br/> **1. ‘x’** : password is stored in the /etc/shadow file <br/> **2. \*** : the user doesn't have login access <br/> **3. blank field** : the user doesn't have a password | The user ID  | The group ID | GECOS field - This is used to generally leave comments about the user or account such as their real name or phone number, it is comma delimited. | User's home directory | User's shell

### 4.4 `/etc/shadow` sample
The `/etc/shadow` file is used to store information about user authentication. It requires superuser read permissions.

In most distributions today, user authentication doesn't rely on just the `/etc/shadow` file, there are other mechanisms in place such as PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) that replace authentication.

```sh
$ sudo cat /etc/shadow
root:MyEPTEa$6Nonsense:15000:0:99999:7:::
```

root | MyEPTEa$6Nonsense | 15000 | 0 | 99999| 7 | \<void\> | \<void\> | \<void\>
--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--|--
Username | Encrypted password | **Date of last password changed** : </br> expressed as the number of days since Jan 1, 1970. If there is a 0 that means the user should change their password the next time they login | **Minimum password age** : </br> Days that a user will have to wait before being able to change their password again | **Maximum password age** : </br> Maximum number of days before a user has to change their password | **Password warning period** : </br> Number of days before a password is going to expire | **Password inactivity period** : </br> Number of days after a password has expired to allow login with their password | **Account expiration date** : </br> date that user will not be able to login | Reserved field for future use

### 4.5 `/etc/group` sample
Another file that is used in user management is the /etc/group file. This file allows for different groups with different permissions.

```sh
root:*:0:pete
```

root| * | 0 | pete
--|--|--|--
Group name | **Group password** : there isn't a need to set a group password, using an elevated privilege like sudo is standard. A "*" will be put in place as the default value | Group ID (GID) | **List of users** : you can manually specify users you want in a specific group

## 5. Permissions
### 5.1 File Permission
first field of `ls -l`:  `drwxr-xr-x`

d | rwx | r-x | r-x
--|--|--|--
filetype | user permissions | group permissions | other permissions

- filetype: 
	- `d`: directory
	- `-`: regular file
- permission state: 
	- `r`: readable
	- `w`: writable
	- `x`: executable (basically an executable program)
	- `-`: empty

### 5.2 Permission and Ownership Modification
#### 5.2.1 Permission Modification
- symbolic format:
	- change user permission : `chmod u+|- r|w|x FILENAME`
	- change group permission : `chmod g+|- r|w|x FILENAME`
	- change both: `chmod ug+|- r|w|x FILENAME`
	- `-R --recursive` : change files and directories respectively
- numerical format: `chmod xyz FILENAME`
	- `x`: sum of permisson code for user permission 
	- `y`: sum of permisson code for usergroup permission
	- `z`: sum of permisson code for other permission
	- `4`: read permission
	- `2`: write permission
	- `1`: execute permission

#### 5.2.2 Ownership Modification
- change user ownership : `sudo chown USERNAME FILENAME`
- change group permission : `sudo chgrp GROUPNAME FILENAME`
- change both : `sudo chown USERNAME:GROUPNAME FILENAME`
- `-R --recursive` : change files and directories respectively

#### 5.2.3 `umask xyz`
change default permission of newly-created files(session sensitive):

```sh
$ umask xyz
```

`xyz` is similar to numerical format mentioned above except that the numbers refer to **the sum of the permission you want to take away**

### 5.3 `setuid`, `setgid` and sticky bit
- `SUID`: allows the users who launched the program to get the file owner's permission as well as execution permission
- `SGID`: allows a program to run as if it was a member of that group
- `sticky bit`: only the owner or the root user can delete or rename the file, this is very useful for shared directories.

#### 5.3.1 Modifying `SUID` and `SGID`
- symbolic format
	- `SUID` : `sudo chmod u+s FILENAME`
	- `SGID` : `sudo chmod g+s FILENAME`
	- `sticky bit` : `sudo chmod +t FILENAME`
- numeric format:
	- `SUID` : `sudo chmod 4xyz FILENAME` the SUID is denoted by a `4` and pre-pended to the permission set.
	- `SGID` : `sudo chmod 2xyz FILENAME` The numerical representation for SGID is `2`.
	- `sticky bit` : `sudo chmod 1xyz FILENAME` The numerical representation for the sticky bit is `1`.

### 5.4 Process Permission
#### 5.4.1 Effective User ID
When you launch a process, it runs with the same permissions as the user or group that ran it, this is known as an **effective user ID**. This UID is used to grant access rights to a process. 

#### 5.4.2 Real User ID
this is the ID of the user that launched the process. These are used to track down who the user who launched the process is.

#### 5.4.3 Saved User ID
this allows a process to switch between the effective UID and real UID, vice versa. This is useful because we don't want our process to run with elevated privileges all the time, it's just good practice to use special privileges at specific times.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTM4NTY1MDY2MF19
-->