# Boot RPi and Enable SSH Connection w/o GUI 

## 1. Enable SSH Connection and Auto Connection to Wi-Fi upon Booting
Reinsert the SD card and you'll see a new externel device named `boot`

Create an empty file named `ssh` under `boot/` and config file named `wpa_supplicant.conf` with the following content: 
```json
country=CN
ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1

network={
	ssid="network_name_with_quotation_marks"
	psk="network_passwd"
	priority=1
	} 
```

You can setup multiple networks available for RPi by adding another `network={}` in the configuration file. The one with larger priority number comes first.

Safely eject the SD device and insert it into RPi. Power on and a green LED shall be on if everything goes smoothly.

## 2. SSH RPi
Usually, the default username for a new RPi is `pi`, with hostname `raspberrypi` and password `raspberry`. So first try on your SSH client `ssh pi@raspberrypi.local`, then SSH login should be prompted if your device can find your RPi's IP address successfully; otherwise, you will need to find its IP first.

### 2.1 [Find IP Address for RPi (if necessary)](https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-ip-address/)
Several possible ways to find your RPi's IP address (ranked by priority):

- If available, login to your network router to try finding its client list, you will see a client with hostname `raspberrypi`
 and its IP
- Try `ping raspberrypi.local` to retrieve its IP address
- Using `nmap` (this may not work though)

Then you can SSH into your RPi by `ssh pi@ip_address`.

### 2.2 Change Hostname (Permanently) and Password
The default password should be changed asap once you successfully login. Use `passwd` to setup a new one.

If you have multiple RPi hosts working simutaneously, then different hostnames should be set to distinguish them. Use `sudo nano /etc/hosts`, and typically you will see a line: `127.0.1.1    raspberrypi`. Change `raspberrypi` to whatever you want. The same goes for changing `/etc/hostname`. Reboot the system `sudo reboot` to make it work.

### 2.3 Safely Shutdown RPi
As you may have already noticed, there is no button to switch the Raspberry Pi on or off. Your first instinct is probably to pull the power cord, but this is highly not recommended.

There are many reasons why pulling the power cord while your operating system is still running is not a good idea.

- Firstly, by pulling the power cord out early, you heighten the risk of your SD card becoming corrupt. (This is real)
- Secondly, anything that is running will not make a graceful exit and save. This forced exit may cause data loss depending on what your Raspberry Pi was doing at the time.

The easiest way to shutdown the Raspberry Pi correctly is to use a very simple command. You can find the command right below.

`sudo shutdown -h now`

It will do the following process to ensure the operating system shutdowns gracefully.

1. It will send SIGTERM to all the running processes, so they can save and exit gracefully.
2. After an interval, it sends SIGKILL, so that any remaining processes will be halted.
3. Lastly, it will unmount all the file systems.
4. The screen will now show System Halted.
5. You can now remove the power cord with minimal risk to your Raspberry Pi and the operating system.
6. To start the Raspberry Pi simply plug back in the USB power cord.

You can use an shorter alias (e.g. shut) to avoid typing the command every time.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTU0MjI0NDgzXX0=
-->