# Boot RPi and Enable Remote SSH Connection Wirelessly (w/o GUI) 
## 0. Summary
```bash
$ cd /Volumes/boot
$ touch ssh
$ sudo nano wpa_supplicant.conf
$ ssh pi@raspberrypi.local # or ip address
$ sudo nano /etc/hosts
$ sudo nano /etc/hostname
$ sudo shutdown -h now
```

## 1. Enable SSH Connection and Auto Wireless Connection upon Booting
Reinsert the SD card into your Mac and you'll see a new externel device named `boot`. Create an empty file named `ssh` under `boot/` and a config file named `wpa_supplicant.conf` with the following content: 
```json
country=CN
ctrl_interface=DIR=/var/run/wpa_supplicant GROUP=netdev
update_config=1

network={
	ssid="Tsinghua-Secure"
	identity="username"
	psk="password@802.1x"
	priority=1
	} 
```

You can setup multiple networks available for RPi by adding another `network={}` in the configuration file. The ones with larger priority numbers come first.

Safely eject the SD device and insert it into RPi. Power on and the system will boot automatically. A green LED shall be on if everything goes smoothly.

## 2. SSH into RPi
Usually, the default username for a new RPi is `pi`, with hostname `raspberrypi` and password `raspberry`. So, ==under the same network specified in the config file==, first try on your SSH client `ssh pi@raspberrypi.local`, then SSH login should be prompted if your device can find your RPi's IP address successfully; otherwise, you will need to find its IP first.

### 2.1 [Find the IP Address for RPi (if necessary)](https://pimylifeup.com/raspberry-pi-ip-address/)
Several possible ways to find your RPi's IP address (ranked by priority):

- If available, log in to your network router to try finding its client list, you will see a client with hostname `raspberrypi`
 and its IP
- Try `ping raspberrypi.local` to retrieve its IP address
- Use `nmap` (this may not work though)

Then you can SSH into your RPi by `ssh pi@ip_address`.

### 2.2 Change Hostname (Permanently) and Password
The default password should be changed asap for security concerns once you login successfully. Use `passwd` to set a new one.

If you have multiple RPi hosts working simutaneously, then different hostnames should be set to distinguish them. Use `sudo nano /etc/hosts`, and typically you will see a line: `127.0.1.1    raspberrypi`. Change `raspberrypi` to whatever you want. The same goes for `/etc/hostname`. Reboot the system using `sudo reboot` to make it work.

Use `ssh pi@new_hostname.local` and the new password the next time you log in to the RPi system.

### 2.3 Safely Shutdown RPi
As you may have already noticed, there is no button to switch the Raspberry Pi on or off. Your first instinct is probably to pull the power cord, but this is highly not recommended.

There are many reasons why pulling the power cord while your operating system is still running is not a good idea.

- Firstly, by pulling the power cord out early, you heighten the risk of your SD card becoming corrupt. ==(This is real)==
- Secondly, anything that is running will not make a graceful exit and save. This forced exit may cause data loss depending on what your Raspberry Pi was doing at the time.

The easiest way to shutdown the Raspberry Pi correctly is to use a very simple command. You can find the command right below.

`sudo shutdown -h now`

It will do the following process to ensure the operating system shutdowns gracefully.

1. It will send `SIGTERM` to all the running processes, so they can save and exit gracefully.
2. After an interval, it sends `SIGKILL`, so that any remaining processes will be halted.
3. Lastly, it will unmount all the file systems.
4. The screen will now show System Halted.
5. You can now remove the power cord with minimal risk to your Raspberry Pi and the operating system.
6. To start the Raspberry Pi simply plug back in the USB power cord.

> Note: You can use a shorter alias (e.g. `shut`) to avoid typing the command every time. `sudo nano ~/.bashrc` and add a line `alias alias_command='original_command'`, then `source ~/.bashrc`.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTQ0MjQxOTE3OSwxMTY3OTI1MDQ0LC05Mj
M5OTU1OTIsLTE3NjM0MDU0MDgsMTQzODIxNzI4NiwtMTc2MzQw
NTQwOCwtMTA5NDE2NTYxOCwtMTc2MzQwNTQwOCwtMTM0ODA0NT
EzNCwtMjA4Mzk2NjMwNSwtMTY4NDkwMDEzMiwtMTc5MjUxOTYw
MSwxNzkzNTMxNDQ1XX0=
-->