# 02 Linux Intermediate

## 1. Devices
### 1.1 `/dev` directory
When you connect a device to your machine, it generally needs a device driver to function properly. You can interact with device drivers through device files or device nodes, these are special files that look like regular files. Since these device files are just like regular files, you can use programs such as ls, cat, etc to interact with them. These device files are generally stored in the `/dev` directory.

### 1.2 device types
Before we chat about how devices are managed, let's actually take a look at some devices.
```sh
$ ls -l /dev
```  

Permissions | Owner | Group | Major Device Number | Minor Device Number | Timestamp | Device Name
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
brw-rw---- | 1 root | disk | 8, | 0 | Dec 20 20:13 | sda  
crw-rw-rw- | 1 root | root | 1, | 3 | Dec 20 20:13 | null  
srw-rw-rw- | 1 root | root | | 0 | Dec 20 20:13 | log  
prw-r--r-- | 1 root | root | | 0 | Dec 20 20:13 | fdata

Device file types are denoted as the following:

-   `c` - character
-   `b` - block
-   `p` - pipe
-   `s` - socket

#### 1.2.1 Character Device
These devices transfer data, but one a character at a time. You'll see a lot of pseudo devices (/dev/null) as character devices, these devices aren't really physically connected to the machine, but they allow the operating system greater functionality.

#### 1.2.2 Block Device
These devices transfer data, but in large fixed-sized blocks. You'll most commonly see devices that utilize data blocks as block devices, such as harddrives, filesystems, etc.

#### 1.2.3 Pipe Device
Named pipes allow two or more processes to communicate with each other, these are similar to character devices, but instead of having output sent to a device, it's sent to another process.

#### 1.2.4 Socket Device
Socket devices facilitate communication between processes, similar to pipe devices but they can communicate with many processes at once.

#### 1.2.5 Device Characterization
Devices are characterized using two numbers, **major device number** and **minor device number**, and they are separated by a comma. 

- **major device number**: represents the device driver that is used, which is often the major number for sd block devices. 
- **minor device number**: tells the kernel which unique device it is in this driver class, 0 is used to represent the first device.

### 1.3 Device Names
Here are the most common device names that you will encounter:

#### 1.3.1 SCSI Devices
If you have any sort of mass storage on your machine, chances are it is using the SCSI (pronounced "scuzzy") protocol. SCSI stands for Small Computer System Interface, it is a protocol used for allow communication between disks, printers, scanners and other peripherals to your system. You may have heard of SCSI devices which aren't actually in use in modern systems, however our Linux systems correspond SCSI disks with hard disk drives in `/dev`. They are represented by a prefix of `sd` (SCSI disk):

Common SCSI device files:
-   `/dev/sda`: First hard disk
-   `/dev/sdb`: Second hard disk
-   `/dev/sda3`: Third partition on the first hard disk

#### 1.3.2 Pseudo Devices
As we discussed earlier, pseudo devices aren't really physically connected to your system, most common pseudo devices are character devices:
-  `/dev/zero`: accepts and discards all input, produces a continuous stream of NULL (zero value) bytes
-  `/dev/null`: accepts and discards all input, produces no output
-   `/dev/random`: produces random numbers

**PATA Devices**

Sometimes in older systems you may see hard drives being referred to with an hd prefix:

-   /dev/hda - First hard disk
-   /dev/hdd2 - Second partition on 4th hard disk
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTQ5MDk4MzIyMSwtMTU0Mzk2NDkzMl19
-->